the ditherington flaxmill 1797-1885
the first iron frame building in the
world is seen as the grandfather of
skyscrapers
revolutionary in that it was more fire
safe pretty important innovation when
you're dealing with textile
manufacturing
the home insurance building 1885-1889
officially the world's first and known
as the father of the modern skyscraper
it was the first to use steel in its
frame since the outer walls no longer
need to support the structure's weight
buildings can grow higher oh and they
will
mole antonelliana 1889-1908
the mole italian for a big monumental
building
is home to torrance national cinema
museum it has a glass elevator that
takes you to the top terrace
with a 360 degree panoramic view of
italy's first capital city
the singer building 1908-1909
built by the famous sewing machine
company it's the tallest building to be
intentionally torn down it was
demolished when the world trade center
was being built
the well-known house of books in st
petersburg is also
a singer building the metlife tower
1909-1913 the clock faces on each side
of the column are taller than a giraffe
and take up three floors the 25th
through the 27th
their minute hands weigh a thousand
pounds the hour hands
over 700 they were the largest clock
faces in the world when the tower was
completed
the woolworth building 1913-1930
the guy who commissioned the building
self-made millionaire frank woolworth
paid for the land and construction in
cash it'd be almost 340 million dollars
today
you can get a penthouse apartment on the
top floors for a price of 110 million
the bank of manhattan trust building
in a race to the sky with the next
building on the list
plans were changed at the last minute to
make it even taller
upon completion it held the world record
for one month
from april to may but then
the chrysler building 1930-19
it swept in and took the title for the
next 11 months
it was the first building to surpass 1
000 feet
without the added spire it wouldn't have
been taller than the bank of manhattan
trust building
they were hoping it would make them
taller than the next one too
the empire state building 1931-1971
but the architects decided to make this
one even bigger
after hearing about chrysler's added
spire it's the first building to have
more than 100 floors
and the longest record holder at 40
years
it was built so fast the first 30
stories were done
before plans for the top were even
finalized
original one world trade center
1971-1973
the towers were huge floors an acre in
size
enough concrete between the two of them
to build a sidewalk from new york to dc
the site even had its own zip code on a
clear day
you could see into surrounding states
from the top
sears tower 1973-1998
now called willis tower it's made up of
smaller connected towers with varying
heights
this makes it more stable in the windy
city it still
usually sways about six inches but it's
built to withstand
up to three feet the petronas towers
1998-2004 made with
590 000 square feet of laminated glass
enough to cover 10 football fields from
above the towers are shaped like
eight pointed stars a double-decker
connective sky bridge
makes them form a giant m central park
tower a short break in our list to
mention the world's current
tallest residential building condos
start
at 60 million bucks the lux penthouse
offers 17 000 square feet
and spans the top three floors cost
over 95 million dollars
[Music]
taipei 101 2004-2010
taking the title away from the patronus
towers it's still the tallest building
in an earthquake prone zone
it's a little over 650 feet away from a
major fault line
but it's built to withstand a magnitude
9 quake
albeit clock tower another quick shout
out to a different record holder
it's the world's largest clock face the
tower is 35
times bigger than big ben and the arc to
triumph could almost fit in the clock
fix
it's so massive you can tell the time
from 10 miles away
shanghai tower it's the world's second
tallest building
the tallest twisted one and it has the
fastest
elevators in the world they go over 45
miles per hour
the 120 degree twist in the skyscraper's
body
cuts down wind resistance by a quarter
[Music]
the burj khalifa 2010 to the present
it's 10 times the height of the eiffel
tower and all the aluminum in it
could make five airbus a380s the current
tallest building in the world
but it could be dethroned soon will it
be
miapolis from skyscrapers humanity will
move on to vertical cities
everything a person could need in one
mega structure
housing offices stores restaurants a
rotating sky
lounge and even its own marina the
project was announced in 2010
after burj khalifa's completion but it
remains
visionary that means it's still on paper
sky city 1000 the total floor area of
this
massive vertical city could fit the
entire country of monaco
four times its base is wider than the
empire state building is tall
those fourteen bowl-like layers are
called space plateaus
the burj mubarak al kabir construction
is planned for 2023
and it's supposed to be completed by
2030.
its height of 1001 meters is an homage
to the folktale
1001 arabian nights it'll probably
require
triple decker elevators
[Music]
jetta tower designed by the same
architect who did the burj khalifa
construction started in 2013 but has
been on hold since
2018. it'll have double decker elevators
and an
outdoor balcony half the size of a
hockey rink
and 2 000 feet off the ground
[Music]
azerbaijan tower a skyscraper twice the
height of taipei 101 was proposed in
planned to be completed in 2019 but
there's still no word on its status
it's part of the 100 billion dollar
qazar islands project
artificial islands forming a floating
city of 1 million
on the caspian sea the bionic tower
a skyscraper that would house 100 000
people
among 12 vertical neighborhoods the base
island it stands on
would be over a half a mile in diameter
bionic
meaning biologically inspired
engineering the structure takes inspo
from light hollow bird bones proposed in
two cities have shown interest in
funding it but no word on its status
nakiel tower proposed in 2003
started in 2008 but put on hold in 2009
until this day look closer and you'll
see its four
towers connected by sky bridges each
inner tower would be wide enough in
diameter
for big bend to lie across advanced
elevators could get you from the ground
floor to the observation deck
in just 4 minutes
[Music]
sky mile tower we've officially entered
mile
high territory twice the height of the
burj khalifa
this mega skyscraper will house 55 000
people
and use solar wind and algae power the
hexagonal shape reduces swaying
millennium challenge tower twice the
height of angel falls the world's
tallest waterfall
this is another skyscraper that will be
hexagonal
only this designer was inspired by
snowflakes
the shimizu mega city pyramid this
algae-powered giant will be 14 times
bigger than the great pyramid of giza
and house 1 million people it's too
large to even be built with today's
available materials and methods
the designers expected to be made from
technology of the future
most likely carbon nanotubes the goal
2110 dubai city tower
it'll be so tall that you could lay it
on its side
and it would take you 36 minutes to walk
its height
elevators even super fast ones won't be
enough
a vertical bullet train will take their
place it'll be made up of six outer
buildings
connected to and twisting around a
central core
the ultima tower a building half as tall
as kilimanjaro
you could lay two burj khalifas across
his base
and still have some extra room it's so
tall that we'll be able to use the
atmospheric pressure difference between
the top and the bottom
to run electricity through the structure
for its one million inhabitants
the exceed 4000 almost half the height
of mount everest
two times taller than the shimizu
pyramid the tip of this thing will
actually reach past the clouds
it'll use three million tons of steel
that's three and a half times heavier
than the golden gate bridge
the launch loop technically not a
skyscraper
but it will be the first human-made
structure to reach nearly into space
it would take you an hour to drive its
height lengthwise
it'll be almost half the distance from
la to new york
its use to launch objects and people
into orbit for space tourism
exploration and colonization without the
need for rockets
well good luck with all that